                       North American Daily Ephemeris
                                    FAQ
                          Frequently Asked Questions

What is a North American Daily Ephemeris?

Very simply it is an ephemeris set to North American time zones rather than
the usual European times zones. (Beginners note: An ephemeris is a
mathematically precise listing of where the planetary bodies are located in
the sky. Both astrologers and astronomers deem an accurate ephemeris very
important.)

Why bother doing a North American listing?

For North American astrologers, this represents ease of use for quick
reference. I'm a North American astrologer, and I see a lot a clients. The
conversions of time and date from the European time zone listings to North
American time zones, frankly, is a pain, when I'm doing transit work with
clients. I need an ephemeris that's fast and accurate for the time zone I live
in (I'm Virgo, so there's no nonsense on these things).

As a result I whipped together this ephemeris as a short cut. Gosh, is it
handy when a client asks a question during a reading about what's up in the
next two or three weeks, or years, or decades. I've developed quite a 
reputation for pin-pointing energy exactly to the day in transit work. 
This ephemeris is the reason why, and I'm happy to share it with you.

What's included in this ephemeris?

Daily listing for the 10 standard planets in the tropical zodiac as well as
daily listings for Chiron and the mean Moon's node for the entire 21st
Century. The ephemeris covers the entire 21st Century plus a little more, 
years 2000 through 2110 in all. Each year is a separate ascii file for a
total of 111 ephemeris files in all.

You don't get daily listings for Chiron included in any other ephemeris which
I've seen, so this is a useful feature. If you haven't tracked Chiron on a
daily basis in your own chart or in your clients' charts, be prepared to learn
a few things about the influence of the Centaur in your life.

How do I read the ephemeris?

This ephemeris file is set for 11:59 p.m. Eastern Standard Time 
(New York City / Toronto time).

The advantage of this setting for North American astrologers is that you can
see where planets will *finish* the day in question without having to do the
mental gymnastics the European (GMT) ephemeris require. If you do any kind of
daily transit work in North America, you'll spot the  advantage of this right
away.

Example:

Mo/Dy/Yr  Sun    Moon   Merc   Venu   Mars   Jupi   Satu   Uran   Nept   Plut  Chir   Node   
 3/12/99 22Pi09 24Cp22  3Ar28.23Ar40 12Sc01  6Ar28  1Ta15 14Aq55 3Aq34 10Sg29  3Sg52 20Le37.

For instance at the end of the day (11:59 p.m. EST) March 12, 1999 Mercury is 
located at 3 Aries 28 Retrograde (the period next to the location is how 
Astrolog indicates a retrograde planet) for the eastern time zone, ie,  New
York City or Toronto. That same 3 Aries 28 Retrograde position for Mercury
would occur at 8:59 p.m. in the pacific time zone, ie, Los Angeles  or
Vancouver.

No attempt to take into account daylight savings time has been made, given
that daylight time in North America is only partially standardized yet. You'll
have to make the adjustments yourself for daylight time, atlantic time, 
central time, mountain time, and pacific time, etc.

Regardless, for North American locations, this ephemeris will always be within
3 hours or less of your local time, which is  much easier than the 5-8 hour
shifts involved with a GMT ephemeris. You will know where the planets are
*today* right where you live.

Where did the ephemeris calculations come from?

The calculations came from that wonderful piece of astrology freeware,
Astrolog, which contains some fine mathematical capability. I recommend
Astrolog to the working astrologer not because it's easy to use (Warning: it
is not easy to use) but because it has features like this which aren't
available even in most professional astrological software. Be sure to download
*all* the ephemeris files. My links page can whisk you directly to 
Astrolog's home page for this freebie, or you may point your browser to:
http://www.astrolog.org/astrolog.htm

If you already have Astrolog and you've missed this ephemeris option, don't
despair. Like so many good features in Astrolog it is not at all obvious or
intuitive. It took me many hours of both line commands in DOS and mouse clicks
in Windows just to get the raw data buried amongst an abundance of programing
"hash". Then it took even more hours of work writing and executing several
macro editing programs to process the "hash" out of the data using the ED.EXE
editor in WordPerfect. (Even though it's been around for a few years, this is
still the best combined dos/hex editor around, IMHO.)

Are there any glitches in this ephemeris?

Note that the Astrolog indication for planetary stations can differ as much as
a day from the stations listed in Michelsen's American Ephemeris. You'll have
to decide for yourself which one you take as the final authority. I lean
toward Michelsen. There is also an omission of eclipses and moon phases in 
this ephemeris. That's my conscious omission as I'm content to look them up in
Michelsen the few times that I need them. 

Is this ephemeris free?

Yes. Astrolog is free, and so is this ephemeris. Pass it along if you like.
But please include this FAQ if you distribute the ephemeris so people don't
get confused about what's going on with the time of day.

Love and peace,

Richard Brown 
http://www.karmastrology.com
